# BlueDeck FAQ
Frequently asked questions about BlueDeck

## Who are you?
Well, if you were referred to this help site from BlueDeck, then I work for the same organization that you do. I try to avoid specifically naming myself or our organization because this help site is deployed on [GitHub Pages](https://pages.github.com/), which means that, unlike BlueDeck itself, this help site is available on the public internet. I've used Github Pages to host this site because it is much easier to update the site content on a GitHub Page than on a page hosted within BlueDeck itself. Generally speaking, I try to keep my public internet profile separate from my professional information as much as I can. The internet can be a scary place, and Google is always watching...

There is a good chance that many of you already know who I am from using one of my previous projects, but if you don't, and you would feel better knowing who I actually am, feel free to email me from your County email at Admin@BlueDeck.net.

## What is BlueDeck?
BlueDeck is the result of an idea that came from my frustration with the lack of tools for managing personnel rosters. I constantly found myself trying to dig through all of the Word Documents and Excel sheets on the shared drive trying to find contact information and chain-of-command details for a person or a component in the organization. I thought if I could build a tool that could streamline the process of updating and maintaining information about employees and organizational structure, I could make this information much easier to obtain. A simple example of this is when you are trying to find another employee in the roster. Just go to the BlueDeck Members index and put their Id Number in the search box. Much easier than digging through the shared drive. At least, I hope it will be...

## Is BlueDeck secure?
BlueDeck uses [Windows Authentication](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/security/windows-authentication/windows-authentication-overview) to authenticate users and restricts access to the application to only users with current, valid Windows credentials. When you log on to BlueDeck, you may be prompted to provide your Windows username and password, but you are providing this information *to Windows itself,* not BlueDeck. Windows simply validates your credentials and tells BlueDeck if you are who you say you are. Neither BlueDeck nor the BlueDeck adminstrator will ever see, have access to, or ask you for your password. You should *never* share your password with *any* person, including any person who is or claims to be part of BlueDeck or your organization's IT department. Additionally, BlueDeck runs on the organization's intranet, which is separated from the public internet. The downside is that you cannot access BlueDeck from outside the organization's network (unless you have VPN access), but the upside is that the information contained in BlueDeck is better protected.

## Do I need a BlueDeck account?
Nope. You can look up information about people, positions, and components in your organization and view online organizational charts without a BlueDeck account. An account simply unlocks some additional features, including a homepage that lists all of your current coworkers. I hope that you make an account and use all of the features, because by doing so, you help me keep BlueDeck's data updated. If you create and activate an account, you can update your work location and personal information, which helps other members of the organization stay in touch.

## Whats in it for you? 
It will sound strange to most people, but I don't do this for money. I don't get paid. I really enjoy programming, and I see endless opportunities to apply the limited skills I have to projects that, hopefully, make your job a little easier. It is rewarding to build something and see people actually use it in the field without prompting or pressure from higher up, because it means that I've built something *helpful.* There is no higher compliment.